.TH GOSEARCH 1 "February 2026" "gosearch" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
gosearch \- concurrent recursive text search CLI
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gosearch
.RI [ flags ] " <pattern> <path>"
.SH DESCRIPTION
gosearch recursively searches files for matches using a concurrent traversal + worker pipeline.
.SH FLAGS
.TP
.B \-i
Case-insensitive matching.
.TP
.B \-w
Whole-word matching.
.TP
.B \-regex
Treat pattern as a regular expression.
.TP
.B \-workers N
Base worker count.
.TP
.B \-io-workers N
IO worker count (0 = auto).
.TP
.B \-cpu-workers N
CPU worker count (0 = auto).
.TP
.B \-max-workers N
Maximum CPU workers when dynamic scaling is enabled.
.TP
.B \-dynamic-workers
Enable dynamic CPU worker scaling.
.TP
.B \-extensions LIST
Comma-separated extension allowlist (example: .go,.txt).
.TP
.B \-exclude-dir LIST
Comma-separated directory names to skip.
.TP
.B \-max-depth N
Limit traversal depth (-1 for unlimited).
.TP
.B \-follow-symlinks
Follow symlinked files/directories.
.TP
.B \-format plain|json
Output mode.
.TP
.B \-count
Print only total match count.
.TP
.B \-quiet
Suppress output, use exit code only.
.TP
.B \-config FILE
Read defaults from config file (JSON), typically .gosearchrc.
.TP
.B \-completion SHELL
Print shell completion script for bash, zsh, or fish.
.TP
.B \-version
Print build version.
.SH CONFIG FILE
The config file is JSON. CLI flags override config file values.
.PP
Example:
.PP
{
  "ignore_case": true,
  "workers": 8,
  "format": "json"
}
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
One or more matches found.
.TP
.B 1
No matches found.
.TP
.B 2
Invalid usage or fatal setup/runtime error.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR grep (1),
.BR ripgrep (1)
